The next town is
just through this forest.
Let's hurry it up.
[AGREEMENT]
NARRATOR
Our Heroes are on their way
to Shalour City where Gym
Leader Korrina awaits Ash's
third Kalos Gym battle
challenge.
[EXCITED]
Hmm? What's up?
[EXERTION]
‐ Heh‐heh.
‐ Aww.
The Pokémon around here
seem to be really good friends.
CLEMONT
'They are!'
'It's fascinating, the way'
'they all help each other out'
'gathering berries
from the trees.'
Yeah, let's go
so they can get on with it.
‐ Right.
[HAPPY]
URSARING
[EXERTION]
[FEARFUL]
PACHIRISU/SENTRET/PATRAT
[SCARED]
‐ Huh?
‐ What was that?
Was that from the Pokémon
we just saw?
Let's go check it out.
[CONCERNED]
Look! There they are!
[FEARFUL]
What could've happened?
Hey, what is that?
[SATISFIED]
[all gasp]
PACHIRISU/SENTRET/PATRAT
[ANGRY]
[GROWLING]
[FEARFUL]
That Ursaring's
trying to take away
all the berries that
the three of them just gathered.
What an awful thing to do.
‐ Hmph!
‐ Bonnie, wait!
What are you doing?
[panting]
You give those berries
back to them now!
[AGREEMENT]
Okay, Pikachu,
let's help them out!
[AGREEMENT]
[SURPRISED]
Whoa! What is that?
♪ I wanna be the very best ♪
♪ Like no one ever was ♪
♪ To catch them
is my real test ♪
♪ To train them is my cause ♪
♪ Pokémon
gotta catch 'em all ♪
♪ It's you and me ♪
♪ Pokémon ♪
♪ I know it's my destiny ♪
♪ Yeah you're my best friend ♪
♪ In a world we must defend ♪
♪ Pokémon ♪
♪ Gotta catch 'em all ♪
♪ Pokémon ♪♪
ASH
"The Forest Champion!"
Who's that Pokémon?
Let's take a look.
[AGREEMENT]
POKEDEX
Hawlucha, the Wrestling Pokémon.
'Possessing an artistic way
of executing its moves'
'Hawlucha takes great pride
in their elegance.'
ASH
'But it looks different
from the Pokédex.'
[EXERTION]
‐ Oh!
‐ Wowee!
Hey, it's a leaf mask!
[AFFIRMATIVE]
Yeah, what an awesome Pokémon.
CLEMONT
I wonder if Hawlucha's planning
to get the berries
from Ursaring
'and give them back to Patrat
and the other two.'
[ANGRY]
[EXERTION]
[PAINED]
Oh, man!
[HAPPY]
[ANGRY]
[ATTACK]
[PAINED]
[STUNNED]
Alright!
An amazing Karate Chop
with an equally amazing
High Jump Kick!
‐ Hawlucha's incredible!
‐ Yeah!
[AGREEMENT]
I can't believe
how strong Hawlucha is!
[AGREEMENT]
[SIGHS]
[EXERTION]
[EXCITED]
What's going on?
That's Hawlucha's victory pose.
Hawlucha always does that
just before launching
into its finishing move.
SERENA
'But if it poses like that..'
[EXERTION]
[DAZED]
[PAINED]
No! Hawlucha!
KEATON
Opponents always dodge
its final move
at the last second.
'Maybe it's because
it shows off like that.'
DEDENNE/PIKACHU
[AGREEMENT]
Hawlucha has to pose,
even if its opponent runs away.
‐ That's just how it battles.
‐ Hmm.
'What an interesting Pokémon.'
KEATON
'Hawlucha's committed
to the artistry of battling.'
‐ Ah!
‐ Hey, Ash, look at that.
CLEMONT
'Hawlucha's battling efforts'
'gave the Pokémon
their berries back.'
BONNIE
'Wait. Look over there!'
[ANGRY]
[EXERTION]
[all gasp]
‐ No!
‐ Why, you..
Hey! That's enough, Ursaring.
Stop it!
[ANGRY]
Quick, Pikachu, use Iron Tail!
[IRON TAIL MOVE]
[PAINED]
CLEMONT/SERENA/BONNIE
Alright!
Wow.
[UPSET]
BONNIE
'Don't be so mean from now on!'
ASH
'You okay?'
[AFFIRMATIVE]
You know, I like your awesome
attitude about battling.
[AGREEMENT]
‐ Ash, are you okay?
‐ Mm‐hmm.
You had me worried there
for a minute.
Yeah, me too.
Huh?
‐ Hawlucha's so cool.
‐ So you like Hawlucha, eh?
Do you know a lot of stuff
about Hawlucha?
Yes, I've been caretaker of
this forest for a long time
so I know Hawlucha quite well.
It would be so great if you'd
tell me everything about it.
‐ Would you?
‐ I'd he happy to.
First off, the name's Keaton.
It's a pleasure to meet you.
It's a pleasure
to meet you, too.
My name's Ash, and this
is my partner, Pikachu.
[AGREEMENT]
My name's Clemont.
And I'm Bonnie.
It's nice to meet you.
This's Dedenne.
[EXCITED]
My name's Serena.
The pleasure's all mine.
‐ 'So..'
‐ Hm? Right.
You want to know
about Hawlucha.
'One day, it simply wandered
into the forest.'
There are lots of proud
Fighting‐types living here
so I'm pretty sure
Hawlucha wanted to see
how it stacked up
against them in battle.
One after another,
Hawlucha defeated
the strongest Pokémon
in the forest
earning the nickname,
Forest Champion.
Forest Champion, huh?
Hawlucha defends
the gentler Pokémon
against the more
aggressive ones
which ends up
being a big help to me.
Just like we witnessed
before.
But today Hawlucha lost.
[SAD]
Its attacks take
a bit too much time.
Hawlucha would have
beaten Ursaring
if only it hadn't posed.
Hawlucha has a special sense
of battle artistry.
Even if it means defeat
it's simply something
Hawlucha has to do.
I get it! Hawlucha's really
dedicated to its battle style.
Agreed, if you're interested
I'd be more than happy
to show you the place
where Hawlucha does
all of its special training.
Yeah? You'd really do that?
That'd be great!
[EXERTION]
[AGREEMENT]
[CURIOUS]
[EXERTION]
[DISBELIEF]
[ANGRY]
KEATON
'Its special training area is
near that waterfall up ahead.'
'Hawlucha's always practicing
Flying Press.'
Ah! Up there!
‐ Yes!
‐ Ash, hold on!
[EXERTION]
[SURPRISED]
My name's Ash.
I'd like you to try
your Flying Press out on me.
[CURIOUS]
ASH
'Huh? Oh.'
You don't have
to worry about me.
See, it would be really awesome
if you'd let me help you
perfect that move.
[HESITANT]
[chuckles]
[AGREE]
Alright. Bring it on!
[READY]
[EXERTION]
Too slow, do that and I'll
dodge it just like Ursaring did.
You've got to move faster.
[AGREE]
[EXERTION]
‐ 'Still too slow.'
‐ How many times is that?
I‐I don't know,
but I think it's more times
than I can count on
both of my hands.
Of course, when Hawlucha poses
like it does
it's easy to dodge.
If only we could speed up
its Flying Press.
without giving up
on Hawlucha's battle style.
[EXERTION]
[FLYING PRESS MOVE]
Huh!
[all gasp]
Oh, no! Ash!
‐ You got hit hard.
‐ Hey, are you alright?
Yeah, I think I've
figured out a way
to keep your battling style
and at the same time,
stop your opponents
from being able to dodge it.
Huh?
Hmm..
Do you think you can do it?
[AGREE]
‐ 'Something's coming.'
‐ Huh?
[CURIOUS]
Ursaring,
and it's with Conkeldurr.
BONNIE
'They're the ones that prey on
weaker forest Pokémon, right?'
KEATON
'The forest bullies.'
Uh, with the leader
of the outfit..
'...Machamp.'
[ANGRY]
GROUP
Who's that Pokémon?
It's Hawlucha!
HAWLUCHA
[EXERTION]
[DETERMINED]
So, it's Machamp.
It's been a long time.
Do you know that Machamp?
KEATON
'Yes, the truth is..'
...that Machamp actually used
to be the Forest Champion
helping keep things
calm and peaceful.
But when Hawlucha arrived,
the two of them became
rivals.
Over the course of time
Machamp began to lose
more and more battles.
Finally, having been
forced to hand
the title of Forest Champion
over to Hawlucha
Machamp disappeared.
I've heard several rumors
that Machamp has been living up
in the mountains,
training hard.
'I wonder if it's come back
with Ursaring and Conkeldurr'
'to settle the score.'
[DETERMINED]
[EXERTION]
So Machamp wants a one‐on‐one
battle with Hawlucha.
[EXERTION]
[ATTACK]
Machamp must be challenging
Hawlucha for Forest Champion!
It's hard to say.
I guess the answer is hidden
in the outcome of this battle.
[ATTACK]
[PAINED]/[ATTACK]
[PAINED]
[gasps]
He's just standing there.
[EXERTION]
[ATTACK]
Machamp isn't countering
at all. Why?
KEATON
'I'm pretty sure it's gauging'
'just how firm
Hawlucha's resolve is.'
CLEMONT
'Ah, so they're sizing
each other up.'
KEATON
'That's right.'
[HAPPY]
[ATTACK]
‐ Oh!
‐ Oh, no!
What's that all about?
Battling three against one
isn't fair!
[SURPRISED]
KEATON
'Wait, It looks like Machamp
is as surprised as you are.'
'I think the other two
were planning this'
'from the very beginning.'
[DAZED]
Oh, no!
[ATTACK]
[SURPRISED]
[WORRIED]
[SHOCKED]
[ANGRY]
[FORCEFUL]
Hawlucha!
[EXERTION]
[WORRIED]
[ATTACK]
[DAZED]
[CURIOUS]
[all gasp]
[gasps]
Machamp stopped it.
[HAPPY]
[SATISFIED]
It seems Machamp
and Hawlucha have agreed
to battle at another time.
What do you know?
Machamp was really cool
about the whole thing.
Awesome!
That's the way it should be.
Hmm.
Hawlucha, that's too bad
about your battle with Machamp.
But if you still want
to have a heated battle
let me take its place.
[CURIOUS]
I told you, I think
you're an awesome Pokémon.
I'll tell you the truth
I'd like you to come along
with me.
[AFFIRMATIVE]
[DETERMINED]
‐ Alright!
‐ Wow, Ash, that's so cool.
[FOCUSED]
[AFFIRMATIVE]
Wait a minute, buddy.
[CURIOUS]
There's someone else
I'd like to try out
against Hawlucha's
fierce battling style.
[APPEARING]
[EXERTION]
Okay, Froakie,
give it all you've got!
Water Pulse!
[WATER PULSE MOVE]
[EXERTION]
ASH
'Froakie, Double Team!'
[AFFIRMATIVE]
[DOUBLE TEAM MOVE]
Now, use Bubble!
[BUBBLE MOVE]
ASH
'Alright, Froakie.'
'I want you to jump up
and grab Hawlucha.'
'Go!'
[EXERTION]
Froakie!
Wow, that's what I call
incredible jumping power
and speed.
[groaning]
Huh?
Now, Froakie. Double Team!
[CURIOUS]
[DOUBLE TEAM MOVE]
ASH
'Froakie, use Pound!'
[POUND MOVE]
[EXERTION]
SERENA
'So fast!'
[EXERTION]
Yeah, I think I've
figured out a way
to keep your battling style
and at the same time,
stop your opponents
from being able to dodge it.
You just jump up
high in the air
and then you do that pose
with your arms wide open.
After that, do
a quick spin
aim for your opponent's
chest, and come down fast!
Well, Hawlucha?
Will you give it a try?
Here it comes,
Hawlucha's Flying Press
for the final move.
[FLYING PRESS MOVE]
Ah! Check it out!
‐ That's fast!
‐ It's working!
Huh? Quick, Froakie. Use Pound!
[POUND MOVE]
[yelping]
Ash, are you alright?
Hold on. What happened?
[STUNNED]
Well, how are we gonna
figure out who won?
Huh. I'd have to say that
they knocked each other out.
And that sounds
like a draw to me.
Hawlucha, thanks. Having
a battle with you was great.
I think you're
a really special Pokémon.
'Getting your Flying Press
perfect like that'
'during a real battle
was amazing!'
It may have looked like a draw
but the truth is,
I totally lost.
'I know you're gonna be fine
from here on out.'
You know what? I think
you want to go with Ash.
[THOUGHTFUL]
Machamp
[AGREEMENT]
ASH/BONNIE/CLEMONT/SERENA
Huh?
[ENCOURAGING]
Now, don't worry.
The forest will be fine.
[AGREEMENT]
So, Hawlucha, wanna come along?
[AFFIRMATIVE]
Great!
We're gonna be really
good friends. I promise!
[cheering]
Yes! I caught Hawlucha!
Yeah!
[EXCITED]
‐ 'Ash?'
‐ Huh?
I trust that you'll take
good care of Hawlucha.
Please make sure you give it
lots of action‐packed battles.
Right!
NARRATOR
And so, Ash has a new Pok mon
friend in Hawlucha with
its strong battle style.
Now, our hero's Shalour City
Gym battle challenge awaits
as the journey continues.
[theme music]